you mean I have to pluck it first that's
disgusting
oh hello you know Thanksgiving is only a
couple days away I haven't shot bought
or got a turkey yet and frankly the more
I read the less I'm inclined to but
what's Thanksgiving without a roast and
if not turkey than what wait a minute
Satan has pulled my chestnut stuffing
out of the fire before yes yes that's it
tonight we're making a seitan roast
seitan roast used to be made from wild
gluten which was hunted in wheat fields
using micro-fine nets made from gossamer
these days you can find vital wheat
gluten at the health food store or in
the baking aisle of most grocery stores
and make your own seitan I'll show you
how I'm using a recipe by Robin
Robertson as the basis for this but I
have modified it slightly I'll place a
link to the original recipe in the
information bar preheat the oven to 350
degrees
you'll need a loaf of bread now normally
I save scraps of homemade bread in the
freezer and use those for stuffing
but for Thanksgiving I just buy
whatever's cheap tear up at least half
of the loaf and put it into a bowl for
this I used about 3/4 of the loaf I
sometimes do this the night before cover
it loosely and let the bread go stale a
little this is not required but I think
it makes better stuffing don't worry if
you have more bread than will fit in the
bowl it will condense significantly when
you have liquid later set the bread
aside and let's make the seitan you'll
need flour vital wheat gluten
nutritional yeast which you can find at
the health food store along with the
gluten poultry seasoning salt and pepper
for the wet ingredients you'll need 2
heaney or peanut butter tomato paste or
ketchup and soy sauce or similar
condiment for the stuffing you'll need
vegetable Boyan or broth celery and
onion and mushrooms into 1 Bowl place 2
cups of vital wheat gluten 1/4 of a cup
of flour 1/4 cup of nutritional yeast
and 1 to 2 teaspoons of poultry
seasoning if you like add salt and
pepper to taste I also decided to add
some onion powder which is in the
original recipe and makes it a bit more
savoury and flavorful mix the dry
ingredients until they are well combined
to another bowl add 2 tablespoons of
peanut butter a tablespoon of ketchup
1/4 of a cup of soy sauce 1 and 1/4 cups
of water and about a tablespoon of olive
oil with a fork or a whisk mix the wet
ingredients well being sure to fully
operate the peanut butter now if you
don't have nutritional yeast you can
compensate for the flavor by
substituting vegetable broth for the
water the same applies if you want to
omit the soy sauce in that case simply
use one and a half cups of vegetable
broth instead of one and 1/4 cups of
water once everything is thoroughly
mixed add the wet ingredients to the dry
ingredients and mix those together well
be sure to scrape the sides and bottom
of the bowl so that everything is
thoroughly incorporated if the mixture
seems too dry you can add a bit more
liquid but it should be a firm dough
once the dough is mixed place it on a
clean flat surface and knead it at first
this helps to mix it more thoroughly
once it is uniformly mixed however the
kneading helps to develop long gluten
strands this will give the roast a
better texture I generally knead this
dough the same way I need bread dough
you shouldn't need to put down flour for
this as the dough will stick to itself
but it shouldn't stick to the surface
after a few minutes of kneading the
texture will become uniform and like
elastic when this happens set the dough
aside for a few minutes to let it rest
then get out a rolling pin rolling out
this dough will be quite difficult and I
usually have to roll it out about
halfway let it rest for a few more
minutes and then roll it out the rest of
the way this helps because as the dough
rests the gluten relaxes and that will
make it easier to stretch and roll out
you'll probably want to roll it from
side to side as well as this will keep
it from getting too narrow you want to
make a long rectangle that is about a
foot wide it will take some work and a
bit of patience but eventually it will
roll out nice and flat you want it to be
between 1/4 and 1/2 of an inch thick now
let's make the stuffing to that 3/4 of a
loaf of bread I added 2 cups of
vegetable broth a few tablespoons of
olive oil and mixed well if it's too
moist I add more bread if it's too dry I
just add water I used about a third of a
medium sized onion diced 2 stalks of
celery and 5 baby portobello mushrooms
the celery and the mushrooms especially
will help to keep the stuffing and the
roast moist I used about one and a half
to two teaspoons of poultry seasoning
salt and pepper
add anything else that you like such as
raisins if you like that weirdo and mix
well next lightly oil a piece of foil in
retrospect I really should have rolled
up the roast before I placed it on the
oiled foil but it's not a huge deal
spread the stuffing on the roast to a
thickness of about half an inch leaving
at least a 1-inch border all the way
around
roll up the roast from end to end
crimping the edges as you go
I had a bit too much stuffing at one end
so I simply removed it roll it up the
rest of the way placing the seam at the
bottom and squeeze the ends to seal them
there was oil on my roast so that didn't
really work so well this time roll it up
tightly in the foil and place it in a
pan I used a casserole dish but you can
use practically anything that's at least
a couple inches deep pour water into the
pan to a depth of at least one inch if
you have excess stuffing you can cook it
in its own casserole dish at which point
it technically becomes dressing cover it
with foil and place it into the oven
next to the roast the dressing will take
between half an hour and 45 minutes to
cook depending on how much there is the
roast will take about 90 minutes once
the dressing is done remove it from the
oven and place it on a cooling rack
after 90 minutes the roast should be
done it's not necessary to check the
internal temperature but if you want to
look for a temperature of at least 160
180 so it's definitely done remove it
from the oven and place it on a cooling
rack let it sit for at least 10 minutes
before you slice it slice it with a
serrated knife as thinly or thickly as
you like half an inch to an inch works
best serve as is or with gravy just like
meat you'll want to eat it with a knife
and fork
well that roast was pretty good and
since the effect of tryptophan from
Turkey has been greatly overstated he'll
still be just a sleepy Thanksgiving
afternoon tune in next time for
information on something else